describe how the tools work and how they fit together (#21)
ukaea/overlap_checker: ARCHITECTURE.md

This document tries to describe the organising principles behind the
overlap checker.

These tools are inspired by the https://github.com/ukaea/parallel-preprocessor/
previously written by Qingfeng Xia.

# Users

There are currently two groups of users these tools are being designed
to support:

1. CAD-CI, i.e. automatic validation of CAD models. Currently this is
   just making sure that models are self consistent, no significant
   overlaps.
2. Neutronics modelling, i.e. preprocessing CAD models so they can be
   used with tools like DAGMC.

# Terminology

>  * A **solid**s is a 3D volume described by a set of faces, edges, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * A **solid** is a 3D volume described by a set of faces, edges, and
```

   verticies.

>  * Solids **intersect** when some point exists that is within either
>    solids or on the surface of either solid. It's useful to
>    distinguish between these cases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Solids **intersect** when some point exists that is within (or on the surface of) both solids. It's useful to
   distinguish between these cases:
```

   * Intersecting solids **touch** when the volume of intersection is
     empty. For example, a vertex of one solid lies on the face of
     another. Or, minimally, when two vertices are at the same
     location.
   * Intersection solids **overlap** when the volume of the
     intersection is not empty. E.g. points exist that are within the
     shapes.
 * Solids are **distinct** when they do not intersect in any way. For
   example, their bounding boxes do not overlap. Note that this can
   get awkward to determine, e.g. a cylinder could have a torus around

>    it whose "hole" is larger diameter than the cylinder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   it whose "hole" has a larger diameter than the cylinder.
```

# Model representation

The parts of the CAD we really care about are the solid parts and
their physical properties, like material. Some operations mutate these
parts (e.g. the imprint step) and we still want to be able to
reference the parts consistently.

CAD models tend to be hierarchical (it makes it easier to work on them
like this) but this makes referring to parts awkward. The way I've
chosen is to "linearise" the hierarchy of solids into a list, and

> maintain this linear order across related files and operations.

Reviewer: A key point here is that you're not creating any new solids (e.g. with solid1, solid2, and intersection12), but are adding the intersection to one of the original solids.

Reviewer: Another question is whether you can get the solids out of the STEP file in a deterministic order?

Author: getting files out of a STEP file in deterministic order shouldn't matter, that's just done once when converting to BREP.  it's whether running these different utilities iterate over the BREP solids they get them back in the same order

Author: > A key point here

this was what the following paragraph (i.e. "For example, when checking") is giving examples of?

to get a union, or to cut one part out of another. Note that this API
is awkward to use efficiently and it's easy to make the library do
much more work than is necessary!

# Tool functionality

The project consists of several small tools that can be combined in a
variety of ways to solve different tasks. These are described in the
following sections, e.g. the CAD-CI users would just need an import,
the overlap checker, and optionally the collector to help determine
which solids are overlapping.

# Import

The source data needs to be imported and the solids linearised and
written to a BREP file for use by other tools. As part of this these
tools attempt to extract material properties and write them to a CSV
file, but I don't get anything useful from the files I have at the
moment. `step_to_brep` works with STEP files, while `brep_flatten`
allows an existing BREP file to be worked with.

`step_to_brep` contains code to validate that the input file has been
interpreted correctly, but this might be worth splitting out into a
separate tool as more input formats are supported.

# Overlap checking

Once the solids have been linearised, it's a simple matter of

> performing $N(N-1)$ checks to determine which solids intersect with

Reviewer: What does the $N(N-1)$ syntax represent?  (It looks like some kind of Markdown formatting, but GitHub doesn't seem to interpret it as that.)

Author: oops, forgot about that.  Jupyter recognizes it in their notebooks as a latex style equation, forgot that github doesn't support it!

each other. The cases we care about are:

 * distinct
 * touching
 * overlapping

Note, due to human and machine precision issues, some edge cases
arise:

 * Models often contain shapes that should be connected, but don't
   actually touch. Therefore, this code considers solids that are less
   than some user-specified tolerance (e.g. 0.001mm) from each other
   to be touching.
 * Similarly, it's useful to distinguish between shapes that overlap
   by some small user-specified amount (e.g. less than 0.5% of their
   volume) and those which overlap more significantly.

When used for validation of CAD models, it is enough to ensure that no
significant overlaps exist.

The `overlap_checker` tool outputs all intersecting solids to a CSV
file. The `overlap_collecter` reads this output to create a BREP file
containing just the overlapping volumes, which can be loaded along
with the original model to determine where they are.

# Model clean-up

For a model to be used in (e.g.) neutronics modelling, we need to

> remove any overlaps between solids (`imprint_solids`) and merge
> (`merge_solids`) vertexes/edges/faces where appropriate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
remove any overlaps between solids (`imprint_solids`) and merge
vertexes/edges/faces (`merge_solids`) where appropriate.
```

Physical models want every point in space to either be in a single
solid or be empty space. Any points within an intersection cause
ambiguity which cause models to fail. Imprinting aims to automatically
fix geometries containing overlaps.

Models also tend to assume that transitions between solids occur via
shared faces. For example, two adjacent cubes should share adjacent
faces to indicate they touch each other. Otherwise the model might
interpret this as needing a particle to transition from solid, into
air, then back into a solid, or maybe that the two solids can slide

> past each other.

Reviewer: I don't understand the bit about two solids sliding past each other.
